Exploring the Effects of OER at TRU (Admin)
Page 1
Administrator Survey
Completing this survey will take approximately 20 minutes.
Purpose
The purpose of this study is to explore the effects of Open Textbook adoption in relation to student costs; learning outcomes; resource use; and faculty, administrator, and student perceptions of open and traditional resources.
Voluntary Participation
Your participation in this research project is completely voluntary. All questions in the online survey are optional and you may withdraw from the research study at any time by closing your browser. Clicking “Yes” below indicates that you have read and understood this form and consent to participate in this research. You should ask the principal investigator listed below any questions you may have about this research study. You may ask him questions in the future if you do not understand something that is being done. Consenting to participate in this research project does not waive your rights to legal recourse in the event of research related harm.
Principal Investigator
Colin Madland (M.Ed.), Thompson Rivers University
Risks
There are no known risks associated with participating in this research project.
    1 of 25
Benefits
The study will help us build a picture of how instructors at TRU use open educational resources for learning and teaching. The research data will help educators around the world make more informed decisions about the adoption of open textbooks and other open educational resources and support increased adoption and adaptation of open resources to reduce student costs and improve learning outcomes.
Compensation
There is no compensation offered in exchange for your participation in this study.
Confidentiality
By answering the survey questions, you are granting the researcher use of your data for research and dissemination purposes. Although you are not asked to provide your name, in some cases your answers to a few demographic questions about your academic background and your role at TRU could indirectly identify you.
Please note, however, that you may choose not to answer these questions and that all of the questions in this survey are optional.
The results of this study may be presented at conferences and published in academic journals; however only group averages and trends will be reported. The raw data collected during this study will be stored securely (using password protected and encrypted data files) and accessible only to the researcher. Anonymized data will be made available under an open license to enable further analysis by other researchers.
At this time there is no plan to destroy the data as it may be used for future analyses, including investigations of changes over time in attitudes towards open textbooks and other open educational resources.
Our data protection policy complies with British Columbia’s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act.
 2 of 25
Contact Information
If you want to talk to anyone about this research study because you think you have not been treated fairly or think you have been hurt by joining the study, or if you have any other questions about the study, you should the principal investigator, Mr. Colin Madland, at 250- 852-6810 or cmadland@tru.ca or the Chair of the Research Ethics Board at 250-828-5000 or tru-reb@tru.ca.
Informed Consent
Do you consent to having your responses included in this research project?
    3 of 25
Page 2
   Demographics
What is your highest educational qualification?
High School Diploma Attended College
Associates Degree (Two Year) Bachelors Degree
Masters Degree
PhD or Professional Doctorate
No Formal Qualification
       Other, please specify...
Type here
  What kind of teaching have you done? Please check all that apply.
Full-time face-to-face teaching Part-time face-to-face teaching Full-time distance/online teaching Part-time distance/online teaching
     4 of 25
Full-time blended (face-to-face and distance/online) teaching Part-time blended (face-to-face and distance/online) teaching Work-based training
Other, please
specify...
     Type here
For how many years did you teach?
Under 1 year 1 to 3 years
4 to 6 years
7 to 10 years Over 10 years
For how many years have you been an administrator in higher education?
Under 1 year 1 to 3 years
4 to 6 years
7 to 10 years Over 10 years
           5 of 25
 6 of 25
Page 3
   Your use of Open Educational Resources (OER).
Open Educational Resources are teaching, learning or research materials that are in the public domain or released with an intellectual property license that allows for free use, adaptation, and distribution.
Open educational resources can be in many formats, including open textbooks, complete courses and small assets such as videos. Many free online resources are open educational resources.
In which of these ways, if any, have you used or created Open Educational Resources?
Please select all that apply.
I have used open educational resources.
I have adapted open educational resources to fit my needs.
I have created open educational resources for study or teaching.
I have created resources myself and published them on an open licence.
I have added a resource to a repository.
I have added comments to a repository regarding the quality of a resource.
I have added comments to a repository suggesting ways of using a resource. I have not used or created open educational resources.
        Other, please specify...
Type here
    7 of 25
Which, if any, of the following types of open educational resources have you used for teaching/training?
Please select all that apply.
Open textbooks
Whole course
Elements of a course (e.g. a module/unit) Videos
Audio podcasts
Images
Infographics
Interactive games
Lectures
Lesson plans
Tutorials
Quizzes
Ebooks
Data sets
Learning tools, instruments and plugins
               Other, please specify...
Type here
   8 of 25
Are you aware of the BCcampus Open Textbook repository?
Yes No
If you are aware of BCcampus Open Textbooks, how did you learn about them?
Type here
    9 of 25
Page 4
   Teaching with Open Educational Resources
Based on your experiences as a instructor and administrator, to what extent do you agree with the following statements? Use of OER in higher education...
Increases learners' participation in class discussions
Increases learners' interest in the subjects taught
Increases learners' satisfaction with the learning experience
Leads to improved students' grades
Builds learners' confidence
Develops learners' increased independence and self-reliance
Allows me to better accommodate diverse learners' needs
Increases learners' engagement with lesson content
Strongly Disagree
Disagree
Neutral
Agree
Strongly Agree
                                        Increases learners'
     experimentation with new
10 of 25
 
experimentation with new ways of learning
Increases collaboration and/or peer-support among learners
Increases learners' enthusiasm for future study
Leads to learners becoming interested in a wider range of subjects than before they used OER
Strongly Disagree
Disagree
Neutral
Agree
Strongly Agree
                    Please provide evidence, or tell us more about any experience, which supports your responses to the previous question's statements.
Type here
 Based on your experiences as an instructor or administrator, how would you rate the quality of OER when compared with traditional, proprietary materials?
"The quality of OER when compared with traditional, proprietary materials is usually..."
Much Better Somewhat Better
   11 of 25
About the Same Somewhat Worse Much Worse
Please provide evidence, or tell us more about any experience, which supports your responses to the previous question's statements.
Type here
     12 of 25
Page 5
   The Impact of Using Open Educational Resources
Do you believe that your students have saved money by using open educational resources?
Do you think that your institution benefits financially by using open educational resources?
To what extent do you agree with the following statements about the impact of instructors using open educational resources? Use of open educational resources...
      broadens coverage of the curriculum
leads to a broader range of teaching and learning methods
improves student and instructor information and communication technology skills
leads to the use of a wider range of multimedia
Strongly Disagree
Disagree
Neutral
Agree
Strongly Agree
                     13 of 25
leads to more use of culturally diverse resources
helps instructors stay more up-to-date in their knowledge of their subject area
leads to instructors reflecting more on the way that they teach
leads to instructors more frequently comparing their own teaching with others
leads to instructors using OER study to develop their teaching
leads to instructors collaborating more with colleagues
Strongly Disagree
Disagree
Neutral
Agree
Strongly Agree
                              Please provide evidence, or tell us more about any experience, which supports your responses to the previous question's statements.
Type here
  14 of 25
Page 6
   Institutional Policies Concerning Open Educational Resources
What kinds of practices and policies, if any, does your institution have in relation to open educational resources?
Type here
 Are you aware of any changes to policy and/or practice that have taken place at your institution as a result of participation in OER pilots and/or programs?
In the context of your role as an administrator, what kinds of policies would help instructors to be more open?
Type here
    In the context of your role as an administrator, what barriers, if any, have you encountered when instructors have used OER in your institution?
 15 of 25
 Type here
 16 of 25
Page 7
   Open Licensing
"A license is a document that specifies what can and cannot be done with a work (whether sound, text, image or multimedia). It grants permissions and states restrictions. Broadly speaking, an open license is one which grants permission to access, reuse and redistribute a work with few or no restrictions."
Open Definition (http://opendefinition.org/guide/)
 Do you recognise the logo above?
I've never seen it
I've seen it but I don't know what it means I've seen it and I know what it means
How important is open licensing to using resources in teaching in higher education?
Very important Important
      17 of 25
Moderately important Of little importance Unimportant
    18 of 25
Page 8
   Openness
What does "openness" in education mean to you?
Type here
 Do you think that instructors should share teaching resources publicly?
No, but they may share them with colleagues or others when asked.
No, they should not share any of their teaching materials with anyone but students.
Yes, they should be publicly viewable and they should have a license on them that allows them to be revised and reused.
Yes, they should be publicly viewable but they shouldn't have a license on them that allows them to be revised and reused.
    Other, please specify...
Type here
  Please explain the reasons behind your answer to the previous question: Why should instructors share their teaching materials publicly (or not), and why should they/should they not allow them to be revised and reused?
 19 of 25
 Type here
Are there any institutional or policy barriers that may affect instructors' decisions whether and how to share their teaching materials publicly? If so, please explain.
Type here
  20 of 25
Page 9
   About Your Use of Computers and the Internet
In which of these ways, if any, have you accessed the Internet during the past three months?
Via an Internet-enabled mobile phone (smartphone) Via a tablet computer or iPad
At home using a broadband connection
At home using a dial-up connection
Via a video game console
At work
At an educational institution
At a community facility (e.g. a library)
Via a commercial facility (e.g. cyber cafe) Other, please
specify...
           Type here
Which of these things have you done in the last year?
Sent an email
Written a document using word processing software (e.g. Word)
   21 of 25
Used presentation software (e.g. Powerpoint)
Performed calculations with spreadsheet software (e.g. Excel)
Contributed to a Wiki (e.g. Wikipedia)
Published a blog post (e.g. Wordpress, Blogger)
Shared an image online (e.g. Flickr, Instagram, Pinterest)
Posted on a microblogging platform (e.g. Twitter, Tumblr)
Took part in a videochat (e.g. Skype)
Contributed to an Internet forum
Contributed to a social network (e.g. Facebook, Google+, MySpace, Beebo) Used cloud-based storage (e.g. Dropbox, Google Drive)
Shopped Online (e.g. eBay, Amazon)
Downloaded a Podcast (e.g. iTunes)
Downloaded a file using a torrent client (e.g. Bittorrent, UTorrent)
Filmed and uploaded video content
Used a learning management system to study or teach (e.g. Moodle, Blackboard) Recorded and uploaded a podcast
                 22 of 25
Page 10
   A Little More About You
Here are a number of personality traits that may or may not apply to you. Please indicate the extent to which you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. You should rate the extent to which the pair of traits applies to you, even if one characteristic applies more strongly than the other.
I see myself as
Extroverted, enthusiastic.
Critical, quarrelsome.
Dependable, self-disciplined.
Anxious, easily upset.
Open to new experiences, complex.
Reserved, quiet.
Sympathetic, warm.
Disorganized, careless.
Disagree Strongly
Disagree Moderately
Disagree a Little
Neither Agree Agree a
nor Little Disagree
Agree Moderately
Agree Strongly
                                                        Calm,
23 of 25
 
Calm, emotionally stable.
Conventional, un-creative.
Disagree Strongly
Disagree Moderately
Disagree a Little
Neither Agree Agree a
nor Little Disagree
Agree Moderately
Agree Strongly
               24 of 25
  25 of 25
